---
title: Devlog 2
date: 2019-10-08
summary: Who does my project hurt?


# View.
#   1 = List
#   2 = Compact
#   3 = Card
view: 2

# Optional header image (relative to `static/img/` folder).
header:
  caption: ""
  image: ""
---

# Devlog 2: What impact does my project have?

My project focuses on the LGBTQ+ community in Ottawa. The first thing I wondered when considering the implications of fabricating my work is what impact it has on a very real community. I intend to manipulate either real history and queerify it, or create a deepfake narrative of LGBTQ+ historical events. I'm considering using the [Talk to Transformer] (https://talktotransformer.com) code introduced last class. This code essentially creates comprehensive strings of words to make sentences, which form a narrative. The AI learning model is based on Reddit, and could create a very harmful narrative to the queer community. How much control will I have over what text the code spits out? I can guide the direction the tool follows, but it essentially just predicts the next logical word in a string of words. 

Reddit, being a open forum, presents potentially harmful opinions about and prejudices against the queer community. Using a tool built to predict word linkages and based on the numerous topics on that forum, could generate hate speak. My real name being associated with this project, my fragile academic career as a MA candidate and my feminine gender, put me in a place of nebulous security. Similarly, the output of this tool could generate harmful content that spurs white, misogynistic, homophobic supremacists to very real action against the queer community. Because how can we distinguish between fact and fiction 1: on the internet, 2: created by an artificial intelligence, and 3: without context or a disclaimer attached.

Are the potential harms of this project worth me abandoning it before I even start? Will it create more harm than good? Does my intent (to create an AI discursive narrative and analyze the postcolonial contexts behind the technology) matter in the face of the potential harm it creates? 
